hi this is part three of the discussion
of how the history of the 20th century
in Buddhism has shaped the situation
we're in now at start of the 21st
century if I were going to summarize
subject being discussed in one sentence
up to this point it would be that the
crisis of modernity is a crisis of
confronting what's ancient and what's
not the first two parts obviously the
big preoccupation was in delving into
the political conditions in the 20th
century that have shaped the situation
we're in now on 21st and obviously the
emphasis have given to it should give
you the sense that those those political
and social conditions and economic
conditions have been so overwhelming
that they have been more important than
the philosophical problem we're talking
about now but by the same token as the
emergency period of what I've termed
refugee Buddhism as that period of
emergency has come to an end as the
period of communist persecution has come
to an end and other unique post-war
features of 20th century have petered
out along with certain philosophical
movements that work though closely
linked now that profound underlying
problem comes to the fore how far the
implications go of this conflict between
what's ancient and what's only
apparently what we now know in the
modern age um brings into question all
the assumptions that millions of
Buddhists learn from their grandparents
and regard it as legitimate authentic
and definitive present the other
necessary Preppers to this discussion is
what I covered in my very first youtube
video where I clarify that when I say
something is more ancient I am NOT
claiming that it's more rational or more
scientific
different philosophies from different
periods of time are simply different and
nobody should make the claim that for
example pre-socratic velocity the most
ancient philosophy from Greece is more
rational and more scientific than a post
Socratic philosophy simply because it is
more ancient obviously when you look at
specific thinkers on a case-by-case
basis course some are more rational some
more irrational someone more spiritual
etc any contrast can be made between
specific philosophical authors but what
I covered in my first youtube video was
to clarify that when I say something is
older not making any kind of claim that
it therefore presents a more skeptical
more rational more scientific attitude
within the Institute bosom however if
you can transplant yourself into the
mindset of a Catholic fer for a second
you can consider how how unsettling it
is for modern Catholics to know that in
the Bible the Bible as we still have it
today the text in this case hasn't
changed in the Bible the so-called
Virgin Mary never was a virgin it has
been a known fact than something like
the 2nd century ad that Christians were
intentionally mistranslating and
promoting a mistranslation of the Hebrew
Aramaic etc um that made a word that
sibling meant young woman appear to mean
virgin and constructed and promoted the
miracle of a virgin birth connecting
Jesus to some of the Old Testament
prophecies since are called Isaiah um
today every Christian is confronted with
the fact that the more ancient version
of the life of Jesus does not include
any virgin birth if your grandparents
and raised you to believe that this was
central to Catholicism you can imagine
what a strange
said only thing would be to simply know
that no that's not Egypt and it's not
legitimate and in a world where
everything is unreal it's it's not real
Oh some things are more unreal that is
so the knowledge that ancient Christians
who wrote the Bible never even made a
claim never advanced a myth that Jesus
was a virgin birth that must affect the
way you regard the religion in some
sense even though I'm not at all putting
forward a claim that the most ancient
part of the Bible is more rational to
say that something is coherent is very
different from saying that it's rational
reason that it's true the most ancient
period of Buddhist philosophy is
coherent it presents its own view of the
world and that view of the world is
magical it is supernatural it includes
gods and demons and a magical mountain
at the mineral middle of the world and
reincarnation and magical formulas that
you can chant to try to protect yourself
against the venomous snakes um it's a
magical ancient view of what the world
is and of our places quite apart from
the place of the Buddhist philosophy
which is also very much magical however
it is coherent and when you compare that
to something that arose many centuries
later in Thailand in Japan or in China
in a totally different language and
totally different culture it is
naturally impossible to make those into
one coherent whole especially philosophy
but even in the level of ritual I'm sure
there are millions of Christians who
continue to celebrate holidays that
including Christmas with the virgin
birth included but also having the
knowledge that this is just a leader
myth added on Christianity and it's not
part of the original difficult tradition
and it's not even something that Jesus
wanted people to say about him he didn't
go around
Jim hey you should know I was pretty
pretty interesting what kind of results
you get trying to sell that story so we
have thousands of examples in Buddhism
we can likewise a the crisis of
modernity makes us confront what's
ancient and what's not and again what's
not ancient I'm not at all here to tell
you that it's um what's not ancient can
never be a coherent part of the
philosophy of the hood it never can um
Japan has a tradition that still popular
day of worshipping the earth uma Bodine
Seth i'll put up the chinese characters
here at the top of the screen this is
one of the most popular statue making
statute worshipping traditions in japan
and when japan occupied ruled taiwan
they actually tried to export this
tradition to taiwan you know that wasn't
so many decades ago today i think that's
something i don't think there will be
any Japanese missionary organization
trying to get other cultures and other
countries to to worship statues of the
so called Earth Moon what he said um
that tradition people do ascribe
miracles and supernatural powers to it
less and less as time goes on but I
would compare it to the intense
emotional attachment many Christians
have to the Virgin Mary the earth-moon
Bodhisattva is especially associated
with parents warning their deceased
children when when there's been
miscarriage or when a child has died
younger than the parents there are
dulles many many people who have strong
emotional connections to this tradition
still today even if they would never
believe in supernatural effects of the
statute however you know culture
is not static culture doesn't exist as a
statute in a museum that's dead culture
culture only exists it persists when
people actively reproduce it when people
are making it new again and again and
during World War two the Japanese
believed in this enough to try to
reproduce this culture in Taiwan that's
a really interesting test of faith and
today I mean there are Japanese who are
trying to export various forms of
Buddhist philosophy abroad you can take
glance of what those are but I don't
think anyone is trying to sell this this
magical statute that's linked to morning
debt infants and so on so there's a
shift many of the aspects of Buddhism
that have been promoted ferociously in
the last few decades have no authentic
faces in the ancient texts and
tremendous success for so-called
breathing meditation I give you a link
to an article everything discussing what
the ancient texts I should said
breathing meditation is a fraud and it's
a money-making from people pay money to
learn so cold breathing meditation putte
scores so the focus sounds like it it's
not an agent or authentic heart of
autism and the modern history can read
the article so cold interdependence is
not an ancient and authentic part of the
Buddhist philosophy and it can't be
reconciled coherently with what the text
says on one subject or on any other
subject if you just read the first
couple of paragraphs that the article I
can link you to the article I've written
about it you'll see that the timeline of
who said what is just basically most
three authors
most recent on 1975 and then this idea
spread all over the world hundreds of
university professors and thousands of
months now preach this story that is not
supported by a single sentence in the
Pelican no more than the concept of the
virgin birth of Jesus is supported by a
single sentence in the Bible it is an
intentional mistranslation actively
promoted actively to see anything um at
least as much as the story of the virgin
birth of Jesus I should clarify it for
the 100th time that what is most ancient
and most effective is not necessarily
the most rational or the most appealing
to modern people today indra the ancient
god Indra is an important part of
ancient Buddhism it's not he's not an
important part of modern birds look
around try to find a statue of Indra
once in a long while you can find an
image or a painting of them in any
temple whether it's in Thailand or China
or what have you in Nura has dropped out
of the faith and when you know what's
really ancient on what's not you're
always running into funny coincidences
of fragments that have one attack from
the ancient period through Tuesday a
throat China at least until recently
they still had the belief in what was
called the kitchen God in English the
once every two weeks on the lunar
calendar cycle there was a magical
messenger of the gods who came to check
on who's naughty and who's nice and part
of the Chinese tradition was actually
leaving out a bride leaving out some
food once every two weeks in the kitchen
so that when the messenger of the gods
came to visit he would be less likely to
report back to the God
on the the sins and evil taste you've
been committed if you talk Chinese
people today they think this is a you
know folk tradition that comes from
China it's in the pally cab it's part of
the most ancient tradition extension
Buddhism that survived as as a folk
practice in in China today and to give
one more example that I think would and
could influence thousands of people you
know Richard Gombrich an academic but a
proponent of Buddhism lifelong coupon
it's very influential very functional
esta tears he put out a series of theses
on the epistemology and ontology of
Buddhism these are not trivial matters
if you have a standard Western education
of philosophy those are normally the
first two things you look for you look
for ontology fiscal nology ethics and
actually garbage covers all three in his
thesis his thesis is alive every piece
of evidence used to support it is based
on fraud and I have an article on the
internet that shows you that fact
exposes it fairly rapidly take some work
to go through but what garbage is done
even though he's supposedly a secular
Western thinker it's not incompetent
you'll get any examples where I have
gone riches claimable philosophy the
source that he quotes and then my
explanation of what that really means in
its original context with the original
language it's not accidental and he's
not capable of that kind of compliments
these are brand new ancient lies and the
reason why they're powerful well the
reasons are everything I discussed in
the first two parts bundled up with this
big fundamental problem crisis in the
deer meat of looking back reconsidering
reevaluating um what is but
definitive Asian part puts the belief
that a Buddhist monk who is attained
Nirvana gonna fly through the air like
Superman among other superpowers that is
an authentic ancient definitive part of
Buddhism on the one hand nobody is
sincerely interested in preaching form
of Buddhism that believes in and
valorized this belief that Buddhist
monks today can fly or that they should
be able to fly or that they're doing
something wrong if they've been
meditating for all these years and can't
fly on the other hand nobody wants to
teach your version of Buddhism that said
well 2,000 years ago there were monks
who could fly but today people have lost
the art and nobody is meditating nobody
is attending to Vanar correctly so
nobody can fly no he wants to teach your
version of Buddhism that some is
authentic but it's a crumpled failure of
its former self but the third
possibility for me is also not viable I
do not think the future of this religion
can be a lie in which people pretend
that those texts don't exist that
Buddhism never was built on the site of
supernatural claim that meditation Jonah
and Nirvana that they did it in all a
supernatural powers most flying monks
read and fire their bodies walking
through walls and so on that has been in
the 20th century a major attempt to
solve the crisis of modernity in
Buddhism but again I would say that that
doesn't solve the problems it only
distracts people from and if you're
going to draw people into the religion
on a false premise on the promise of a
scientific and rational but its own then
you are going to lose those people the
minute they find out that you're lying
to them and it doesn't take that long
for people to get to that minute like
these days now that the texts are
available in digital format it could be
about 10 minutes fraud in Buddhism it
takes money away from people it
sometimes takes medicine away from
people tells people to
just meditate and not get medical help
so it sometimes kills people and
sometimes sexual history but fraud in
Buddhism main victim is Buddhist
philosophy itself I've met so many
people who dedicated years of their
lives to Buddhism and at the end of
those years were just as ignorant as
they were at the beginning and they've
spent those years worshiping statues
sometimes worshiping living monks same
months they give money to repeating
magical formulas involved in all kinds
of superstitious practices whether they
involve statutes or mandela's or
mountains of colored sand and they are
just as ignorant or worse after years of
gone by so what have they been defrauded
him apart from loss of time and money
Sabbath they've been cheated the
opportunity to learn what the Buddhist
philosophy is